There's a question that I get asked all
the time and the question is, "How do I
get people to like me?"
I had this experience one time where I
was in an airplane and there was a man
and all I did was ask like two questions
and we had like a 2-hour flight and he
just spoke to me the whole time.
And it wasn't until we were getting up
out of the seat to leave the plane that
he realized what he had done and
apologized for it. I was like, "Oh, no.
Of course, I'm happy to listen to you."
Now, what do you think? You think that
guy liked me? Of course he did. He liked
me because I was interested in him. And
that's the way it works is that we are
interested in people who are interested
in us.
Now, if you're not sincerely interested
in somebody, then probably you don't
care if they like you. Then you're just
being manipulative and you should just
give up on that. But if you're going to
be sincere,
then you probably if you there's
somebody you really want to have like
you, just listening to them will allow
them to feel seen and feel heard. And
that's what we actually like. We don't
have to add value. We don't have to be
smart. We don't have to show off. We
don't have to be beautiful. We just have
to care about somebody. So here's a
weird experiment that we do often in our
work, which is that we have people
listen to other people in different
ways. Imagine you're telling me about
your childhood and I was sitting like
this.
What do you think? What would you share
with me as compared if I was sitting
like this?
[sighs] What?
Or compared to if I was sitting like
this?
Yeah.
Three different ways of listening create
three different stories that I'm going
to get. How we listen makes all the
difference. As a matter of fact, when I
was in venture capital,
I would get pitch companies all the
time. All the time. Here's the company.
Here's the company. Here's the company.
And for every four or 500 companies,
there maybe 10 that we would look more
deeply into. But the ones who were
really clever were the ones who came in
instead of presenting stuff asked us
questions. They wanted to know what was
important to us, what we wanted to see,
what were our boxes that we were trying
to check, and then they would speak to
those directly
instead of assuming that they knew what
we wanted. Now, of course, if you do
this in a manipulative way, you're going
to be seen right away because if you're
manipulating somebody through questions,
then you're not going to be listening
from the right place and everybody's
going to be able to tell. We know that
when a car salesman's asking us question
about what kind of car we want, the way
they listen to us, we literally kind of
back away from them. We're like, uh,
don't want to be around this.
We can feel that. So, it's really
important that when you're asking
questions and when you're listening,
it's coming from a place of actual care.
Having that place of care can mean a lot
of things. And the way we describe it is
that we describe it as view, which means
that you are being vulnerable. You are
being impartial. You are being
empathetic and you are being full of
wonder. So think about it this way. I'm
with you and I'm being vulnerable. Which
means I'm allowing myself to feel your
reality. Be in your reality with you. I
am asking you questions that maybe are a
little scary, but I'm going to learn a
lot about you. That's the vulnerability.
I'm going to be impartial, meaning I'm
not trying to get you anywhere. I'm not
even trying to get you to like me. I'm
just trying to be with you and
understand you, care about you. And if
I'm at all interested in anything, I'm
just interested about how I am with you.
Am I being who I want to be with you? Am
I being authentic with you? Empathy
means that I am with you emotionally.
I'm feeling what you're feeling, but I'm
not believing everything. I'm not I'm
not in you. I'm with you. Yeah. Okay. I
see that that's upsetting to you. Or I
see that you're excited about that. I'm
with you in that. That's cool. I like
that. I can be excited with you. I can
be I can feel that sadness with you, but
it doesn't mean that I'm buying into
your story. It doesn't mean that I'm
like lost in you and I've completely
gone into your world. Yeah. Yeah,
totally. He's an I totally
agree with you. It's not that. It's
like, yeah, I can see how much that hurt
hurt you when he did that. I can see how
that would hurt me, too.
It's it's being with them. It's not
being in them. And then the last one is
wonder, where you're really deeply
curious about them, but you're not
needing an answer. Wonder is curiosity
without needing an answer. You're just
kind of in awe. You're like, "Oh, wow.
Check this out. Check them out." Like,
how is their world? How are they looking
at things? And that's what we all want.
We want, oh, look, here's somebody who
cares about me. They don't want anything
from me. They're interested in me.
They're asking me questions. They're
empathetically with me. And they're
being vulnerable. They're they're saying
the scary thing that's true for them.
They're asking the scary question. Yeah.
Yeah. I want to be around that. And
that's what we go into in the connection
course. We go into like five days of
exercises around all these things around
that deep dive experience of what it's
like to physically sematically be in
vulnerability, impartiality, empathy,
and wonder. And we see how that drives
connection between people. And then we
talk about how to ask really great
questions. But how you ask the
questions, not only is it about the
state of mind, but there's a little bit
of a technique there. So if I say to you
something like,
uh, do you like ice cream? I'm going to
get a yes or no answer. But if I say,
how do you feel about ice cream? I could
get anything from stories about lactose
intolerance or how you like mint
chocolate chip or uh, an ice cream shop
that you went to as a kid that closed
down and it made you sad. I could get
any information. So open-ended questions
actually show that I care. Closedended
questions don't show that care. They
don't give you the data. The second
thing that's important about asking
questions is that you try to avoid the
why questions. And it's not that why
questions are particularly bad. It's
just that usually a judgmental question
starts with why. Why did you do that?
Why are you like that? You don't say
what made you do that? Right? The
judgmental questions start with why.
They're also really hard questions to
answer. If you say something like why is
the sun that's a hard question to
answer. How did the sun come to be? How
did the sun get created? All those are
much easier answers to give. And so when
you ask somebody a why question, it
typically stumps them. So it's just
about really listening to somebody and
asking them questions so that they know
that you care about them. As you build
connection with other people, you're
also learning how to build it with
yourself because at some point in there,
you'll start listening to yourself.
You'll start being vulnerable with
yourself and empathetic with yourself.
You'll be impartial with yourself.
You'll be full of wonder with yourself.
And all of a sudden, those conversations
that you're having with other people,
you'll start having them with yourself.
And it becomes really gentle. And the
growth happens really fast. And all of a
sudden, you notice how much you care
about yourself and that you're worth
that care. And your whole life changes.